It's
going. All right. I guess we'll start over again,
because I don't think that one was working. And
Mrs. Adams, you were telling me about going as a
bride to Mexico. Well,
my husband was superintendent of a mine up in the
mountains. And it was a mine that was halfway
between Saltillo and Monterey.
about two miles off the railroad. And we only lived
there a short time because the revolution came
along and we had to leave. And then finally, we were
in and out of Mexico for two or three years then. And
that's how we came to live in San Antonio because
this is our stopping place in between times. And we
finally did go back to the mine And then Mr. Adams
had a, let's see, he was transferred then over to
Ahuela, which is near Torreón. He was with the
Peñoles Mining Company. And it was from that mine
up above Saltillo where The bandits came in and
took him out and held him for five days, held him for
a $25,000 ransom. That isn't much compared with
what they get these days, but it was a great deal
then. I was in Los Angeles at the time, and this was
the... I just collected the... Those clippings
had been laid away for, I guess, 50 years. And when
we sold our home and moved into the apartment,
these came to life. And so then I put them in a book
and saved them. But they held him for five days out
in the hill country. Finally, they paid the ransom
and came back. It was a very pleasant experience
for him. Nothing happened. They were very good to
him. All they wanted was money for the revolution.
What particular group of people? Well, they
claimed to be Peroncistas at the time. That was
when Carranza was in power. And when they came to
rescue him, he said he was sleeping on a... on a
blanket with a soldier on either side of them
sleeping on their guns. And when the men came up the
trail at 10 o'clock at night, one of them said, Kim
Beebe, who comes? And one of them said, Carranza.
And the other said, Villa. So they were evidently
divided, you see. The men who were holding him
claimed to be The men who were holding him came to be
viestas and they arranged then for the ransom to be
paid out of the, from the mining company office in
Saltillo.
He came out all right. He was only gone five days,
but I was in Los Angeles and it was just, two months
before my son was born. So I didn't meet any of these
newspaper men. My father was an old newspaper man
and he met them out on the porch of our home there in
Los Angeles. My parents lived in Los Angeles. Of
course, he was trying to fend off the reporters,
and I wouldn't see them. So all of these things that
were in these press notices were very disturbing
to me because they were garbled, you know. And
every time a newspaper would come out, I'd just go
into hysterics. Well, when did you first hear that
he'd been kidnapped? Well, I had... He was a
very... almost providential thing because I took
my daughter who was then four and went on the
streetcar which was at 5th and 6th
and Coronado and went down to the corner of 7th and
Broadway on the streetcar. I was just getting out
of home because I had had the flu the week before and
I wanted to get out. And I heard these people
calling the extras on the other two corners
across. But I got off on this corner and walked
directly across the street to get my bus back home.
And they were calling all about the American
kidnapped in Mexico. And it didn't down on me that
it was my husband because they'd had so much
trouble down around Fresnillo and the mines down
there. And I just thought it was, just because it
was Mexico, it was disturbing. And I got home and my
father was out on the back porch just nervously
looking at these newspapers. And I said, well,
Dad, you might as well bring the papers in. I know
about it already. Then I looked at the headlines
and I said, well I didn't know it was my husband. And
then of course I called the telegraph office,
Western Union, and they said that they had had a
consular message for me and they'd been trying to
locate me. This was on a Monday. They'd been trying
to locate me since
Saturday. This didn't happen on Friday night. And
because I was visiting my parents, who were named
Adams, you see, they had, they had, they were named
Kemp, and they were canvassing all the Adams in the
directory. And so, of course, as soon as I
identified myself, I got the message from the
consulate in Saltia and from the mining company.
It was the American Metals Company in New York. And
I got my messages from them. They assured me that
that was in here the They assured me that he was.
This is the message. Your husband, held for ransom
by Mexican rebels, have just received word he is
being well treated. This office and the company
doing everything possible to procure his
release. And this was February 16, 1920. So this
was actually rather late in the revolutionary
period. Well, it was an interesting experience.
He came out all right. There's never a time when
it's very convenient to have a thing like that
happen. Not exactly. No, I shouldn't think so.
Well, when you were first down there, you were
talking about going down to Mexico and your
trousseau going by Ox Park. Now, when was that?
Well, that was in 1918,
I guess. My son was born in 1920, and this must have
been 1916, because my
daughter was two years old at the time. So it was
very primitive at that time, of course, because we
didn't even have the the highway between Monterey
and Saltillo at that time. We could go from
Monterey,
we could go from the mine to Saltillo. We had a
little Ford car. We could drive that to Saltillo.
But to go to Monterey, we had to go on the train. And
it only came lots of times. It was two days late
coming through. So it was very primitive. Did you
live at a mining camp or in a village? We lived in a
mining camp, and there was no one there, but I went
directly from Los Angeles, and I didn't know any
Spanish at all. There were no other ladies in camp,
and there was a sort of hotel for the bachelors. of
workers and a Chinese cook, and they were down the
hillside from our house, and we had this house up on
the hillside, and a very nice, I think I have a
picture of that.
This
was, this doesn't, do much for your recording. Oh,
that's all right. It'll be fine in the transcript.
Mary, you can look at it in just a moment. Why don't
you go stand over here? Well, here is the Pancho
Villa. Oh, this is Pancho Villa? Yes. He came in. He
visited my husband several times at the, uh, this
villa. Uh-huh. But he was at the smelter. You see,
the mining camp This was down in Ahuela, near
Torreon. This is the one near Torreon. But not
where I live. Now, are you in this picture? No. This
was taken down at the, not at the mine, but down at
the smelt area. See, the mining company had the,
this mine in Ahuela, where you are, is very
interesting. It's a beautiful mountain country.
What did your husband used to say about you? Did he
talk about you much? Well, he was very, he came to
call on my husband. He was in the hospital with an
accident of mine.
He was very, very agreeable when he came to call. Of
course, you felt you had to handle him with gloves
because he was supposed to be very temperamental,
you know. So I guess everybody handled him very
carefully, but he was very considerate. He came to
call on Mr. Adams in the hospital
and asked about his health, if they were taking
care of him. But the houses at this mine are so
interesting.
The mining group. Were most of the miners North
Americans? Well, this mining company that Mr.
Adams was with was the Pinole's Mining Company,
which was a Mexico division of the American Metal
Company. And it, in turn, was a subdivision of the
German Berlin Gasol shop. Of course that was, you
see this is ancient history. That was 50, more than
50 years ago. I can't believe sometimes it's that
far back.
This is the place where they had a strike and all the
miners came out, see them on top of the building?
Yeah, was there any trouble with strikes in the
mine? Oh yes, we had numerous strikes. And in the
morning, when Mr. Adams would get up and go down
into the patio, our house was on the hillside,
you'd look down into the patio. When I'd see these
Serapis and Sombreros milling around the patio,
then I'd know that there was a strike on, that they
weren't going to work, you see. They had numerous,
and they had old battles back and forth during the
time. You see, Mexicans lived in these little,
they called them cuevas. They would go to dig them
back into the hillside where it was warm, you see,
and have their sleeping quarters back in these
cuevas, as they called them. Then they put a sort of
a patio effect out in front, and when it was warm
weather, they would live out in this patio. And
when it was cold, they'd go back in the hillside.
Very friendly. And these were the people that
worked in the mines? Yes, yes, those were the
workers. These were the ox kind.
I wanted to show you that hillside, which shows all
their houses, which I thought was very
interesting. That's some of the workings in the
mine.
The battles, did you actually see any of the
battles? No. See, most of the revolution was over
by the time I went down there. We were married in, I
don't know, I'll be able to tell you the date, but I
always forget it. I think it was 1913.
And my husband had gone down to Mexico. He
graduated from Stanford. He worked for a little
while for the Miami Copper Company in Arizona, and
then he went to Mexico. And he came out, I remember,
in 1910, when they had a revolution down there.
They were always having a revolution, you know. It
was a very mountainous country. This was the
mining camp where he Is this the one in Torrey Yard?
Well, no, this is there in Harris, where
he had a mine, an accident in the mine, had a hole of
rock hit him when he was, had knocked him down, had a
fractured vertebra, and they carried him down
this, on a, A very rude litter with a blanket, you
know, with two sticks on either side. Mine was very
high up. Yes. Well, he had a very checkered career.
This was a bull fight. Now you say he had to leave or
was it... Oh, there shows all the pot marks when
they were taking and retaking this town of
Torreon. Uh-huh. And the houses were just full of
cannonballs and bullets and everything else. But
did you all, until the bandits came, did you feel
terribly threatened by any of the things that were
going on, or did he, or did they pretty much leave
him alone?
You always had a, when you're young, you know,
those things don't affect you very much. I guess we
really felt a little uneasy all the time, because
when I first went down there and Betty was a baby, I
kept a little satchel packed with her baby food and
her bottle and her diapers and all, so that if we had
to get out on short notice, we could leave. And one
night, this, we were, We had been told that the
bandits were roving around the station, which was
two miles down from the camp. And so we went to bed
rather uneasy. And then there was a, we kept a
watchman outside the house all night long. They
had a system of alarms all over the camp, so that if
there was a bandit alarm, he would ring on an old
rail in the backyard, you know, soundless alarm,
and the watchmen at the different levels over the
mine would answer it, so that the whole camp would
be alarmed. And in the middle of the night, he came
to our window and he said, here they come, I'm in.
And Mr. Adams asked, how many? And he said there
were five bandits and they were on the trail back to
our house. So Mr. Adams said, well, sound the
alarm. So we heard him go back and sound this alarm.
And we got into our clothes as quickly as we could,
and I wrapped the baby in a blanket and got all ready
to go down to the mine. And Mr. Adams took me down to
the entrance of the mine. There was a little
railroad that went into the entrance of the mine.
And he left me there with the assistant
superintendent, and he went back up the trail to
wait for the bandits. And the three burros came
down the trail.
So
it was much less threatening than it had appeared.
We went through all the thrills, as it were.
So we had a number of...
What about the common people, the miners and
people like that? Did they talk very much about
what was going on, or were they very much afraid?
Well, no, they were not. They were a very ignorant
class, and all
they wanted was a livelihood. They wanted the mine
to continue and get their money. And of course, if
they didn't
That was their only means of support because there
wasn't much agricultural pursuits around there.
They had small ranches, but they were owned, you
see, the ranches were owned by the money-class
people, and these workmen could only get day's
wages wherever they worked, you know. They didn't
have much, much prospect of substantial living.
And of course they, most of them, mining was all
they knew. This was a lead and zinc and some silver
mine. And they had, they brought it out on little,
of course they had stoats in the mine where they
knocked the ore down into these little carts. and
they ran it out to the entrance of the mine in the
carts, and then they loaded it onto a tramway,
which was a system of trestles and buckets that ran
down the mountainside, you see, and they The
filled buckets, the weight of the filled buckets
taking the ore down was sufficient to bring the
empties back up, you see, on this tramway, they
called it. That was interesting. I think that
tramway is still there. You go on the railroad to,
between Monterey and Saltillo, it's about
halfway between Monterey and Saltillo. But
the... The Mexican government has taken over all
those mines now. They're government controlled.
And I don't think that mine was good enough. It was
rich enough that they probably aren't mining it at
all now. But during the war days, you see this was
during the war days that we were down there. And we
had to get all our supplies through the American
consulate in Monterey. I remember when we wanted,
Betty had the lupine cough and we wanted, I wanted
special food for her because she didn't seem to be
able to take the food that we were giving her. I
remember I was paying a dollar, a dollar and a half
for a little can of the more than sweetened milk,
you know. Condensed milk? Condensed milk, yes.
But not the, it's the sweetened kind, you know.
That seemed to be all sweetened. At one stage, we
had a goat, and we gave her goat's milk, and they The
Mexican people that you met down there were very
friendly, and I remember this woman who lived over
at the ranch that sent our vegetables in from the
Jewish, and she had sent us milk, but we didn't have
to boil it. Of course, it didn't do very well, but
she said that the child should have goat's milk and
have it warm right from the goat, And so the Mexican
mozo, he'd come in and I'd have him scrub his hands
in the kitchen, wash them very clean, and give him a
little cup with a linen cloth to strain it through.
And he would go up on the hillside and he'd milk the
goat and strain it right into her cup and she'd
drink it. Well, that was the thing that this
Mexican woman told me. How did it work? It worked.
It worked very well. Because we'd been having to
send the secretary, a boy from his office by train
down to Saltillo to bring the milk back, you see. So
this didn't work very well. But we had a number of
very primitive experiences down there. It seems
so long ago, I haven't talked about it for so long,
it's hard to remember. Do you remember
approximately what the miners made each day for
their labor? I just don't know what the prices
were. Of course, they were paid in Mexican
currency.
Right.
I think the ratio was two to one at that time. Of
course, that has changed a good many times, you
know. Then at one time, when Mr. Adams was
kidnapped by these bandits up above Saltea, He
wasn't paying them. He was paying them in script,
which they'd have to take down into the city to get
cashed, because he didn't dare keep money at the
mine. And that was the reason, really, they took
him out when they kidnapped him, was because they
asked for money, and he said he didn't have any
money. And because he was paying in script, And so
they said, well, we'll have to take you with us
until we get our money back. And that's how they did
it. Was this a regular point? Did the bandits do
this regularly? Was it something to be expected? I
mean, were the bandits kidnapping people for
money during this period? Well, this happened.
There had been a good many kidnappings about that
time, and I think one of these clippings in here
tells about how Villa had said that he was going to
capture 12 Americans, and until he got his money
back, Villa claimed that he had sent his
representative up with money to buy supplies, and
the man had absconded with the money, and he said
that until he got his money back, he was going to
kidnap Americans and hold them until he was
reimbursed. Now, this was actually after
Pershing had left Mexico, wasn't it? Yes. Yes. So V
was still actively... But you say these men did not
claim to be V. Eustace. Well, the men that...
The men that took him out claimed to be V. Eustace.
They were all... I think there were about 12 men,
and they all seemed to have... colonel status.
Twelve colonels? My goodness. They were all
colonels. And one of them even was a mason. This was
very queer. Was
your husband a mason too? No. Well, no. His father
had been a mason. Mr. Adams went to Mexico as a young
high engineer right out of college and never had
taken up, he really never had settled himself any
place to be affiliated. His father had been a
nation. The men that held him, were they Did he
describe them as being fairly well educated? They
were all fairly well educated. They were not the
class of men that he'd been working with in the mine
at all. And he said that as they
gave him a horse to ride,
He said as they rode, they could see the Federal
troops in the distance, but they never caught up
with them. He said they didn't try. The Federal
troops were supposed to be out trying to locate
them, you see. And he said they could see them as
they were driving, riding along, and they would
camp at the different, well I guess common, just
commandeered Any ramps they came to, they would
just require them to feed them and feed their
horses. But they rode over the hills for five days.
Did he ever hear from any of these men later? Did he
ever find out what happened to them? No. The man who
came to rescue him was, had been at one time, his
name was Gutierrez, and he had been one of those
interim presidents, well, president probably
for a day or a very short period at one time in
Mexico. And when he came, he came out to to rescue
the saddles. And he simply gave his word to the
bandits that he would bring them their army. So he
acted as a go-between. And they released your
husband before they had the money? Yes. But this
man Gutierrez, of course, we've always thought
that he was in on them. because he merely gave them
his word that the money would be paid to them. And I
think he went into the office in Saltillo and
collected the money and took it out to them. Very
simple. But it was just one of those things. This is
the mountains there.
When we moved and I discovered these, I knew these
clippings were there in a box of papers and all the
shadows had. But my son, who was born just after
this kidnapping, had never seen them until we
moved about four years ago. So it was very
interesting to him and his family. Two of his
children were up here with him the night We were
looking for the
release papers on the property we were selling and
had to have an abstract that had not been filed and
should have been.
So we found all these clippings. Did your husband
ever go back to Mexico after? Yes, we went back to
Mexico, and we lived in Monterey after that, and he
was Assistant General . And then they had a very,
well, they had a general shakeup in the
administration, and a good many of the old
employees left. And we came up here and went into
the packing house business with friends, and
spent 30 years in that. About what year was it that
you came here? Well, we came up in 21, about a year
after
this event. We came up in 21, so we've been living in
San Antonio since 1921. That book needs repair.
It's home to pieces. Yes, it has. That was his track
suit there in Stanford. My friends always said his
middle name was Billy Stanford Adams.
Well, did your husband ever comment about, since
he saw so much of the Revolution, did he have any
opinions about it? Did he ever talk much about
whether he thought it was worthwhile or just a
waste of time? The Mexican governments, you know,
have been so...
One regime will go along easily, you know, and then
the next one comes along and it's completely over.
It's just a series of that sort of thing. And of
course, during the time that he was down there, it
was all so... revolutionary, you know.
Not nearly as stable as it is now. Of course, they
say it isn't too good, but it's a lot more stable
than it was then. At least they have a set
government now that seems to work.
Did you get to know any of the Mexican women? Well,
you see, when I was down there, we were out in the,
out at this little mining camp, and my only
connection was with the ranch people that came in,
and with the miners' families. You know, the
master mechanic down there was a very nice
Mexican, and very capable. I went down to Frank
Brothers to buy some shoes not long ago, and the
clerk that was waiting down there came with
Medellin, and I said, did you happen to come from
the Medellin family in the garrison? He said, yes,
that was my father. Wasn't that queer? How did he
happen to come? Well, I think the whole family came
up here, and they were living out on the... I knew of
them, and I knew when they came. I mean, I... Mr.
Adams had known of their being here, and that the
whole family came up here. He was a good mechanic.
Of course, I don't know of what sort of, you say he
would have in, in, in locating here, but he
evidently managed to. And then when my daughter
came, was married, she, married a young lawyer
here in San Antonio, and never had any idea of going
to Mexico. Of course, she had learned Spanish
before she learned English from the nurse down
that we had for her. She was four or five when we left
Mexico.
And her husband had grown up in Brownsville, And he
spoke excellent Spanish. He was a graduate of
Suwannee and of the University of Texas. And he was
one of the young lawyers that was chosen to go into
the auxiliary service for the embassy in Mexico
City. So he served as an auxiliary officer at the
embassy in Mexico City. And they lived down there
for three years. And then he went on to Washington.
He went to Houston first with the law firm there,
and then he went on to Washington as the Assistant
Secretary for Latin America. What is his name?
Collin. Henry Collin.
They had a very interesting experience. three
years at the embassy
in Mexico City. In fact, Henry spoke such good
Spanish, that was when Mr. Messerschmitt was the
ambassador
in Mexico. Henry spoke such good Spanish that he
did all of the public appearances in the hospital
that he sort of pinched him and told him when he had
his Spanish.
Oh, excuse me. It was a very interesting life for
them. I'm curious, did you ever hear from
Gutierrez again? Did your husband ever hear from
any of these people that had kidnapped him later
on? Or hear what happened to him? No, I don't think
he ever did.
I never thought about that. I think perhaps they
just melted into the, they took their money and
ran. Because that was all, that was all they
wanted. There was nothing, it wasn't anything
personal. They had no... a particular claim
against him, they just wanted their money, and he
said in this write-up in his book, he said they
apologized any number of times for taking him out
if they did. They were very, very polite and very
solicitous for his comfort. Of course, they said
they had to have their money. They knew they would
get it. They knew that the mining company would pay
it because they paid it for other men. They had
taken other men out. I think the superintendent of
the smelter had been taken out to the health events
and the mining company had paid it. So it wasn't an
uncommon experience. Was anyone ever killed? by
this particular group of men? No, I don't think so.
They were not violent men. They just needed money
for the revolution, like I said.
Five days on horseback. Was your husband
accustomed to riding horseback? No. He had a free
saddle sword at the end of that five-day. Well, he
never complained. He said it was a nice horse, and
they promised to give him a horse, but they never
did.
They just traveled around, and really it was an
area not far from this mine, because they doubled
back to the mine finally to get,
I don't know, six or seven supplies, or I'm sorry to
say that. It almost seems this would be gasoline
because
it wasn't. We had that little Ford car at that time
that we used to go back and forth two miles from the
mine down to the station.
Of course, at this other mine where he was taken,
where he was kidnapped, it was even off the
narrow-gauge railway. You had to go by muleback
for a couple of miles to get up there. It was very
isolated. And I guess that was the reason they
dared come in there and take him, because it was off
the line of communication.
Things were... It was interesting at the time. I
wouldn't want to do it now. It sounds like you've
had a lot of very interesting experiences. Well,
it was interesting at the time. Of course, I didn't
think about it at the time. It was very foreign to my
experience because I had grown up while I was
teaching in Los Angeles at the time we met. I had
never been to Texas or Mexico. I'd gone to New York
and traveled from Los Angeles to New York and
Virginia and the east, but I'd never been south. So
it was all new to me. I knew no Spanish. So I learned
my Spanish by the hand and foot method. When you
came to San Antonio, did you make your friends
among the people that had lived in Mexico? Yes,
many of our friends were people who had lived in
Mexico. We still have the nucleus of those
friends. There are lots of people in San Antonio
who have lived in Mexico at one time or another.
still find a new case. And a good many of the, of
these men who left the mining business about the
same time as Travis did were, some of them settled
here, and some were in Denver, and he was Why do you
think so many people left that business right at
that particular time? Well, it was an aftermath of
the war, a reorganization of the company. It was
largely German-dominated. All the head men were
prominent Germans. And I think it was an aftermath
of the war at that time. Well, now, how did that work
out? During that time period, we were at war with
Germany. Were there any complications? Well,
yes. I can't quite remember.
All the mining interests were taken over by the
government
because they were German interests. Right. And I
don't know just how that was... Of course, this
company that Mr. Evans was employed by was the
American Metals Company, but it was owned by the
German interests, and all the head men who came
down to the mine were German. But it was taken over
by the government at that time. By the United
States government? The United States
government, yes. Were there any mining engineers
from other countries besides the United States
down there? Oh yes, there were very many of them. In
fact, Mr. Adams' first mine superintendent was an
Englishman, Mr. Gluck. He was an Englishman, but
he was working for this German company. And we had,
it was, probably had quite a few Germans working
for them. It was not entirely German. It was,
several of the men I picked up were English, and a
good many of them were American mining men,
because I can't remember them all. Were any of them
Italians? No. I don't remember any Italians in the
organization. There were Germans, and there were
Swiss, What about Mexicans? Were there any
Mexicans in the supervisory positions? Not in the
head positions. I can't
remember of any of the
officials being Mexicans. Of course, there was a
large, in Monterey, when we were living down
there, there was a large colony of German settlers
down there, quite a large group. In fact, they had a
German foreign club.
I remember so distinctly when I, when Mr. Adams had
this accident over at the mine, And we went to
Monterey. He was in the hospital there. And we were
moving at that time from one station to another.
And I needed to buy some pajamas. And my Spanish was
very, very poor. And I went into a men's clothing
firm there in Monterey. And in my very poor
Spanish, I told him I wanted sleeping garments. I
wanted two-piece sleeping garments. This is a
very small man that came away on a small stature and
rather a dark complexion. I took him for a Mexican.
And in my terrible Spanish, I explained what I
wanted, and he answered me in perfect English. And
he was a Frenchman and president of the foreign
club. And I said, why did you let me struggle along
with my terrible Spanish? He said, it was such fun
to hear you.
So that was the year we went. After he got out of the
hospital, we went back to Monterey and spent the
year there. And then we left. Did you know of many
Mexican families that left Mexico during this
period or earlier, during the Revolutionary
period? Well, I didn't happen to know them.
Because if I say we were living in the country, you
know, at this mining camp. And the miners
themselves, were they pretty well staying? Well,
they were pretty... Well, they were so poor, you
know, they couldn't go any place. They had to stay
right there. I meant to ask, did they actually,
they with their families, live up at the mine, or
did they live down on their ranches? Oh, no, these
men that worked in the mine lived right there at the
mine. With their families? Yes, with their
families. And they were, that was their home. They
had no other home to go to. Of course, I suppose when
the mine closed down, they spread out in the
country and probably lived with relatives or got
jobs on ranches and wherever they could or went to
another mine. Of course, there were lots of mines
in Mexico. This was one of the rather smaller mines
there. The larger mine over in Torreon was There
were several thousand there around your town, but
this was just a little mining camp, which was very
poor. Did most of the men have wives and children,
huh? Yes. Yes, there were lots of wives and
children at the camp, and they seemed to be a very
happy bunch. They had their own little market,
and...
have their little carnivals and all.
Were they all from that part of Mexico, or were they
from different parts of Mexico? No, I think they
were pretty much from that district, right around
here, about several generations back had worked
on this, in the mines around. Of course, that was
their profession, mining. And it was really very
dangerous because it was primitive, you know.
They had these stoats in the mine where they'd go up
what they called chicken ladders, you know, to go
to the top of the stoat, you know, and dig the ore out
and throw it down, you see, into these parts on this
little railroad. very primitive and very
dangerous they had lots of accidents what did they
do mine no it was lead and silver with a lead and zinc
and some silver but uh about when had it been open my
husband go down to open it oh no no it was an old mine
was in i don't know how there were two mines there in
fact one was the cabrillas line and the other was
over the mountain the garris mine but there were
two mines there but the main mine was where we were
where our camp was and we had a very nice brick house
built on the hillside we had a had to have a watch
from there day and night because There was a trail
right back of the house that led over the
mountains, and that's where the milk pen came in.
And then there was usually, there was this road
down, sort of follows the railroad track there.
And we often had, that's where the train master
down at the station would come up and tell us that
the bandits were milling around the railroad
station. Unless they had some particular
objective, they didn't come up to the camp. Your
miners, did any of them go down and join any of the
revolutionary groups, or would you have heard
about that? Well, we wouldn't have heard about it.
They may have, but... Of course, when they went on
strike, what they wanted was their money. They
wanted more money, might
I say. What did you do when they went on strike? Did
they get more money, or what? Well, they had to
negotiate with them, just like they do now. I
suppose I really didn't enter into that, so I
really don't know. Eventually they'd go back to
work, and I suppose the mining company would agree
to meet their terms or whatever they...
You mentioned a lot of accidents. What did these
people do when somebody had been injured in an
accident? Well, they had a doctor there. They had a
doctor. He was very poor. Of course, he met their
needs. And then, of course, the company had a
Canadian doctor in Monterey, which they would
send that. And the staff had this accident, which
was fine. They sent the Canadian doctor down. In
fact, the other company had their own rolling
stock. They had an engine and a car, too. They
called it the side door Pullman because it was a
boxcar that made over into
a Pullman. They eventually did have a Pullman car.
But when we first went down there, it was the boxcar
with the living quarters in it. They thought that
the hill was special.
Did you learn that the Mexican women had quite a bit
of medical lore? Well, yes. It's a good hill like
the Mexicans are here, you know. They always, they
have their,
I've forgotten what they call them, the women who
They really do an awful lot of doctoring before
they call in a medical doctor.
Old remedies, I suppose. Did you ever use any of
them? No, I never did. Except the goat. Well, the
goat. Yes, I used the goat. But it was a... I... I
remember several times when we were invited over
to this ranch place for a meal, and how very
courteous, and I know they just were convulsed by
Spanish, but you could see they were amused, but
they weren't just courteous at all. And of course,
there's so many words infused with Spanish.
There's so many words, you know, that...
confusing because they have the same word, they
have several different words for the same object.
For instance, my little daughter, I've heard the
word down there for umbrella, sombria, and she
came up here and they called it a parasol and an
umbrella, so she called it a sombrelasol.
The people that owned this ranch, these were the
owners of the ranch? Yes, they owned the ranch.
They weren't the same class as the miners? No, and
there's really a caste system down there. They
felt very superior to the working, and they feel
very superior to the hired hands that they have to
do the manual labor on. on the ranches so there's
really quite a feeling of aristocracy about it
they were very early i i enjoyed the contact down
there your pleasures were very simple did they uh
well uh i don't remember ever entertaining them a
meal or anything. But no, I don't think they did.
They did come over to, she would send her mosso
over, you see, for a pile. We didn't have a water
supply. And they had to send the water over in jugs,
two big jugs on either side of the boiler. And of
course we boiled the water. And then the
vegetables.